README.md, before:

# Scully

[![Commitizen friendly](https://img.shields.io/badge/commitizen-friendly-brightgreen.svg)](http://commitizen.github.io/cz-cli/)


The Static Site Generator for Angular-CLI projects.

## Getting 

## Core Team

| Aaron Frost                                                               | Sander Elias                                                                | Jorge Cano                                                                  | Andres Villanueva                                                                |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ![Aaron Frost](https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/662832?s=120&v=4) | ![Sander Elias](https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/1249083?s=120&v=4) | ![Jorge Cano](https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/5982204?s=120&v=4)   | ![Andres Villanueva](https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/1209238?s=120&v=4) |
| [aaronfrost](https://github.com/aaronfrost)                               | [SanderElias](https://github.com/SanderElias)                               | [jorgeucano](https://github.com/jorgeucano)                                 | [villanuevand](https://github.com/villanuevand)                                  |


#### Created by 
![logo Hero Devs](assets/hero-devs-logo-80x80.jpg)

***HeroDevs. LLC***

Commit message:

refactor(docs): add core team and getting started items to README.md

README.md, after:

# Scully

[![Commitizen friendly](https://img.shields.io/badge/commitizen-friendly-brightgreen.svg)](http://commitizen.github.io/cz-cli/)


The Static Site Generator for Angular projects.

## Getting Started

Start to use scully is very simple, just add: 

```bash 
ng add @scullyio/init
```

But if you want to know more deeply what Scully can do for you, go to the [documentation](/documentation/scully.md)

## Core Team

| Aaron Frost                                                               | Sander Elias                                                                | Jorge Cano                                                                  | Andres Villanueva                                                                |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ![Aaron Frost](https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/662832?s=120&v=4) | ![Sander Elias](https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/1249083?s=120&v=4) | ![Jorge Cano](https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/5982204?s=120&v=4)   | ![Andres Villanueva](https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/1209238?s=120&v=4) |
| [aaronfrost](https://github.com/aaronfrost)                               | [SanderElias](https://github.com/SanderElias)                               | [jorgeucano](https://github.com/jorgeucano)                                 | [villanuevand](https://github.com/villanuevand)                                  |


#### Created by 
![logo Hero Devs](assets/hero-devs-logo-80x80.jpg)

***HeroDevs. LLC***
