docs/Reference/ngLib/transfer-state-service.md, before:

---
title: TransferStateService
published: true
lang: en
position: 100
---

# `TransferStateService`

<div class="docs-link_table">
  <a class="view-in-repo" href="https://github.com/scullyio/scully/blob/main/libs/ng-lib/src/lib/transfer-state/transfer-state.service.ts"></a>
</div>

## Overview

The [`TransferStateService`](https://github.com/scullyio/scully/blob/main/libs/ng-lib/src/lib/transfer-state/transfer-state.service.ts) allows the transfer of an Angular application's state into the static site rendered by Scully.

More over, it allows you to load the state on subsequent route changes after the initial page has been loaded.

A route change fetches the next route's state from the page on the serve, and it is returned to the client. Hence, having a state consumed as part of the build despite any CMS content in production

## Usage

To get or set the application's state, use `getState` and `setState` below:

#### `getState()`

This method returns an observable that fires once and then completes. It does executes after the page's navigation has finished.

```typescript
getState<T>(name: string): Observable<T>
```

#### `setState()`

This method sets values to the property key.

```typescript
setState<T>(name: string, val: T): void;
```

Commit message:

docs(ng-lib): add useScullyTransferState description (#1246)
* docs(transfer-state): add method coverage, add resolver info

Added description for `useScullyTransferState`. Additionally provided some information regarding the usage of TransferState with Angular Route Resolvers.

* chore(ng-lib): undo addition about resolver

After further testing in my app, I could not make it work with this approach, altough it initially seemed to work. Will have to further investigate.. For now, it should not be part of the docs..

docs/Reference/ngLib/transfer-state-service.md, after:

---
title: TransferStateService
published: true
lang: en
position: 100
---

# `TransferStateService`

<div class="docs-link_table">
  <a class="view-in-repo" href="https://github.com/scullyio/scully/blob/main/libs/ng-lib/src/lib/transfer-state/transfer-state.service.ts"></a>
</div>

## Overview

The [`TransferStateService`](https://github.com/scullyio/scully/blob/main/libs/ng-lib/src/lib/transfer-state/transfer-state.service.ts) allows the transfer of an Angular application's state into the static site rendered by Scully.

This allows Scully to use cached data instead of using the original data source (which is most likely
an external API).

More over, it allows you to load the state on subsequent route changes after the initial page has been loaded.

A route change fetches the next route's state from the page on the serve, and it is returned to the client. Hence, having a state consumed as part of the build despite any CMS content in production

## Usage

#### `useScullyTransferState()`

Use this method to have your existing observable data sources automatically
included in Scully's TransferState. During development, your observables will behave as usual.

When the static site is served, Scully will use the cached state instead of accessing the original
observable data source.

```typescript
useScullyTransferState<T>(name: string, originalState: Observable<T>): Observable<T>
```

#### `getState()`

This method returns an observable that fires once and then completes. It does executes after the page's navigation has finished.

```typescript
getState<T>(name: string): Observable<T>
```

#### `setState()`

This method sets values to the property key.

```typescript
setState<T>(name: string, val: T): void;
```
