docs/Reference/utilities/prism-js.md, before:

---
title: Syntax Highlighting using PrismJS
published: true
lang: en
position: 100
---

# Syntax Highlighting with PrismJS

## Overview

> ## NOTE: Scully supports Prism now natively, see [marked](../plugins/built-in-plugins/md.md)

[Prism](https://prismjs.com/) is a lightweight, extensible syntax highlighter that can be used when working with code blocks in markdown files in blog posts.

It is possible to define a language for the code to be used in the Scully code like this:

<pre><code>
```typescript
const foo = 'bar';
```
</code></pre>

## How Scully Handles Code Blocks

Scully parses the markdown using [_marked_](https://www.npmjs.com/package/marked), and the parsed result looks like this:

```html
<code class="language-ts">
  <span class="token keyword">const</span> foo
  <span class="token operator">=</span>
  <span class="token string">'bar'</span>
  <span class="token punctuation">;</span>
</code>
```

_marked_ uses the CSS class prefix `language-` to tag the code block with an appropriate language.

## Usage

To highlight the code blocks use [_prismjs_](https://prismjs.com) and create a service like this:

```bash
npm i --save prismjs
ng g s highlight
```

The service will include all languages needed. The code looks like this:

```typescript
import { Injectable, Inject } from '@angular/core';

import { PLATFORM_ID } from '@angular/core';
import { isPlatformBrowser } from '@angular/common';

import 'clipboard';
import 'prismjs';
import 'prismjs/plugins/toolbar/prism-toolbar';
import 'prismjs/plugins/copy-to-clipboard/prism-copy-to-clipboard';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-bash';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-css';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-javascript';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-json';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-markup';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-typescript';
// ... probably more, check out node_modules/prismjs/components

declare var Prism: any;

@Injectable({ providedIn: 'root' })
export class HighlightService {
  constructor(@Inject(PLATFORM_ID) private platformId: Object) {}

  highlightAll() {
    if (isPlatformBrowser(this.platformId)) {
      Prism.highlightAll();
    }
  }
}
```

Now, it needs to inject the service in the `BlogComponent` that was generated by Scully:

```typescript
import {/* ... */, AfterViewChecked} from '@angular/core';
import {HighlightService} from '../highlight.service';
/* ... */
export class BlogComponent implements OnInit, AfterViewChecked {
  constructor(
    /* ... */
    private highlightService: HighlightService
  ) {}
  /* ... */
  ngAfterViewChecked() {
    this.highlightService.highlightAll();
  }
}
```

Finally, include a Prism's theme like this:

```css
/* include CSS for prism toolbar */
@import '~prismjs/plugins/toolbar/prism-toolbar.css';
/* check node_modules/prismjs/themes/ for the available themes */
@import '~prismjs/themes/prism-tomorrow';
```

Visit [prismjs](https://prismjs.com/) for more information.

Commit message:

Prepare for Angular 13.1. Move to ESM (#1521)
* chore(monorepo): finished NX migrate to 13. WIP, fixes in next commits
* fix(ng-lib): fix build errors from nx migration
* chore(monorepo): nX update
* fix(monorepo) SPS now working, Fixed XhrFactory bug by providing my own
* fix(scully-plugin-puppeteer): fixed exit problem with ppt renderer
* fix(monorepo): make tests work with ESM
* chore(monorepo): pruge a few stale files from scully folder
* chore(monorepo): handle relative path differently bcs GA
* fix(monorepo): fix GA by adding mandatory node flags
* fix(monorepo): update workflow to cater ESM
* fix(monorepo): try less concurrency for guthub actions
* fix(scully): requireify the load of sentry
* fix(monorepo): use require for jsYaml
* fix(monorepo): replace jsYaml with yaml to fix GA build problem
* fix(ng-lib): move rx7 to peerdep to aid install failure in test
* ci(ng-lib): fix workflow to aid new setup
* fix(actions): fix typo in workflow
* fix(actions): fix workflow to install rx7
* fix(scully): fix versions in package.json for scully
* fix(monorepo): update workflow, and demo plugins to modules
* fix(actions): ok, now I'm going to try to use the force
* fix(actions): upgrade schematic and use the force on npm
* fix(scully): use require for path-to-regexp commonjs module
* fix(actions): update workflow to install develop version of ppt plugin && latest puppeteer
* fix(actions): move npm install as init schematics install wrong versions
* fix(actions): fix type in wrokflow
* fix(platform-server): make sure ready events doesn't fire premature
* chore(monorepo): update package-lock
* feat(monorepo): latest nx
* feat(actions): add support for next branch
* fix(platform-server): add node option to workflow
* chore(monorepo): small rework out of PR remarks, added more dics for markdown

docs/Reference/utilities/prism-js.md, after:

---
title: Syntax Highlighting using PrismJS
published: true
lang: en
position: 100
---

# Syntax Highlighting with PrismJS

## Overview

> ## NOTE: Scully supports Prism now natively, see [marked](../plugins/built-in-plugins/md.md)

[Prism](https://prismjs.com/) is a lightweight, extensible syntax highlighter that can be used when working with code blocks in markdown files in blog posts. It is already utilized by Scully's markdown plugin, but if you want to use it in your own code, this page will explain how to add it.

It is possible to define a language for the code to be used in the Scully code like this:

<pre><code>
```typescript
const foo = 'bar';
```
</code></pre>

## How Scully Handles Code Blocks

Scully parses the markdown using [_marked_](https://www.npmjs.com/package/marked), and the parsed result looks like this:

```html
<code class="language-ts">
  <span class="token keyword">const</span> foo
  <span class="token operator">=</span>
  <span class="token string">'bar'</span>
  <span class="token punctuation">;</span>
</code>
```

_marked_ uses the CSS class prefix `language-` to tag the code block with an appropriate language.

## Usage

To highlight the code blocks use [_prismjs_](https://prismjs.com) and create a service like this:

```bash
npm i --save prismjs
ng g s highlight
```

The service will include all languages needed. The code looks like this:

```typescript
import { Injectable, Inject } from '@angular/core';

import { PLATFORM_ID } from '@angular/core';
import { isPlatformBrowser } from '@angular/common';

import 'clipboard';
import 'prismjs';
import 'prismjs/plugins/toolbar/prism-toolbar';
import 'prismjs/plugins/copy-to-clipboard/prism-copy-to-clipboard';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-bash';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-css';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-javascript';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-json';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-markup';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-typescript';
// ... probably more, check out node_modules/prismjs/components

declare var Prism: any;

@Injectable({ providedIn: 'root' })
export class HighlightService {
  constructor(@Inject(PLATFORM_ID) private platformId: Object) {}

  highlightAll() {
    if (isPlatformBrowser(this.platformId)) {
      Prism.highlightAll();
    }
  }
}
```

Now, it needs to inject the service in the `BlogComponent` that was generated by Scully:

```typescript
import {/* ... */, AfterViewChecked} from '@angular/core';
import {HighlightService} from '../highlight.service';
/* ... */
export class BlogComponent implements OnInit, AfterViewChecked {
  constructor(
    /* ... */
    private highlightService: HighlightService
  ) {}
  /* ... */
  ngAfterViewChecked() {
    this.highlightService.highlightAll();
  }
}
```

Finally, include a Prism's theme like this:

```css
/* include CSS for prism toolbar */
@import '~prismjs/plugins/toolbar/prism-toolbar.css';
/* check node_modules/prismjs/themes/ for the available themes */
@import '~prismjs/themes/prism-tomorrow';
```

Visit [prismjs](https://prismjs.com/) for more information.
