docs/learn/introduction.md, before:

---
title: Introduction
published: true
lang: en
navlist_position: 100
navlist_parentIndex: true
navlist_parentPosition: 100
---

# Introduction

## What is Scully?

Scully is the best static site generator for Angular projects looking to embrace the [Jamstack](https://jamstack.org/).  
Scully works on Windows, Linux and macOS.

All about Scully in one video:
<a class="docs-icon-button" href="https://thinkster.io/tutorials/scully-webinar-building-the-fastest-angular-apps-possible">
<img src="/assets/img/icons/play-solid.svg" />
Building the Fastest Angular Apps Possible
</a>

## How does it work?

Scully analyzes the route structure of your compiled Angular application and generates a static version of each page.

## How do I use it?

Scully provides a number of utilities to manipulate static pages, such as:

- [Render .md files as .html](/docs/learn/create-a-blog/add-blog-support) and [extract data from generated routes](/docs/learn/create-a-blog/use-blog-post-data-in-template) to use in Angular templates via simple observable.
- A [flexible and extensible plugin system](/docs/learn/plugins/overview) to bake your own functionality into Scully's processes.
- Several [Angular schematics](/docs/learn/schematics/create-scully-files-with-ng-add) to make its usage <strong>as easy as possible!</strong>

<div class="docs-prev_next">
  <a class="next" href="/docs/learn/getting-started/requirements">get started</a>
</div>

Commit message:

docs(monorepo): first update docs (#881)
* docs(monorepo): first update docs

* test(docsWeb): update snapshots

* Update requirements.md

removed dot

docs/learn/introduction.md, after:

---
title: Introduction
published: true
lang: en
navlist_position: 100
navlist_parentIndex: true
navlist_parentPosition: 100
---

# Introduction

## What is Scully?

Scully is the best static site generator for Angular projects looking to embrace the [Jamstack](https://jamstack.org/).

It will use your application and will create a static `index.html` for each of your pages/routes. Each and every `index.html` will have the content already there, and this will make your application show instantly for the user. Also, this will make your application very SEO friendly. On top of this, your SPA will still function as it did before.  
Also we have an easy to use and extend plugin system that will allow you to manipulate routes and content.

All about Scully in one video:
<a class="docs-icon-button" href="https://thinkster.io/tutorials/scully-webinar-building-the-fastest-angular-apps-possible">
<img src="/assets/img/icons/play-solid.svg" />
Building the Fastest Angular Apps Possible
</a>

## How does it work?

Scully analyzes the route structure of your Angular application and uses that to create a list of routes. (you can add those manually if needed). Then it will go over this list, and generate an `index.html` for each of them. See [the Scully process](/docs/concepts/process/) for in-depth details

## How do I use it?

To add it to your project, and run it for the first time:

```bash
ng add @scullyio/init
ng build --prod
npm run scully
```

For a more elaborate explanation see our getting started.

### Also, Scully provides:

(note, this are only a _few_ highlights, there is much more.)

- [Render .md files as .html](/docs/learn/create-a-blog/add-blog-support) and [extract data from generated routes](/docs/learn/create-a-blog/use-blog-post-data-in-template) to use in Angular templates.
- A [flexible and extensible plugin system](/docs/learn/plugins/overview) to bake your own functionality into Scully's processes.
- Several [Angular schematics](/docs/learn/schematics/create-scully-files-with-ng-add) to make its usage **as easy as possible!**

Scully does work on Windows, Linux, and macOS.

<div class="docs-prev_next">
  <a class="next" href="/docs/learn/getting-started/requirements">get started</a>
</div>
