docs/scully-cmd-line.md, before:

# Scully command line options

Scully CLI has the following options available:

- [Scully command line options](#scully-command-line-options)

  - [serve](#serve)
  - [showBrowser](#showbrowser)
  - [showGuessError](#showguesserror)
  - [configFile](#configfile)
  - [project](#project)
  - [baseFilter](#basefilter)
  - [removeStaticDist](#removestaticdist)
  - [open](#open)
  - [ssl](#ssl)
  - [ssl-cert](#ssl-cert)
  - [ssl-key](#ssl-key)

## serve

```bash
npx scully serve
```

this starts the scully server helper on its own. You can use this to inspect the result from Scully, or to speed up the scully proccess a bit. it does not _build_ the project, it only serves the angular build files, and the scully result files.

## showBrowser

```bash
npx scully --showBrowser
```

Alias `--sb`. This will show the chromium browser that is rendering your application. Can be used to diagnose some issues

## showGuessError

```bash
npx scully --showGuessError
```

Alias `--sge`. This shows errors from Guess-Parse to the console.

## configFile

```bash
npx scully --configFile someName
```

Alias `--cf`. loads a different config file. if used at the same time as `--project` the project flag takes precedence.

## project

```bash
npx scully --project someName
```

Alias `--pr`. This enables you to select a different project. Scully by default uses the project that is the default project of the Angular CLI. When you want to run for another project, you can use this option, or use the Angular CLI to set another default project.

## baseFilter

```bash
npx scully --baseFilter /someRoute
```

Alias `--bf`. This enable to Scully to start to render an specific route.

## removeStaticDist

```bash
npx scully --removeStaticDist
```

Alias `--RSD`. Remove the static folder generated by Scully in previous renders.

## open

```bash
npx scully serve/watch --open
```

Alias `--o`. Open the default browser and show the scully dist.

## ssl

```bash
npx scully serve/watch --ssl
```

Run the scully server with ssl.

## ssl-cert

```bash
npx scully serve/watch --ssl --ssl-cert=./url/to/file
```

Add url to ssl cert file for SSL server

## ssl-key

```bash
npx scully serve/watch --ssl --ssl-key=./url/to/file
```

Add url to ssl key file for SSL server

Commit message:

Sander/implement proxy (#294)
* feat(testdataserver): a local server to replace typycode
* improvement(testdate into source): move testdata into source of Scully
* feat(proxy): added proxy server support to scully
* fix(version): fix version for tests
sometimes the version would be undefined in tests, this fixes that

docs/scully-cmd-line.md, after:

# Scully command line options

Scully CLI has the following options available:

- [Scully command line options](#scully-command-line-options)

  - [serve](#serve)
  - [showBrowser](#showbrowser)
  - [showGuessError](#showguesserror)
  - [configFile](#configfile)
  - [project](#project)
  - [baseFilter](#basefilter)
  - [proxyConfig](proxyconfig)
  - [removeStaticDist](#removestaticdist)
  - [open](#open)
  - [ssl](#ssl)
  - [ssl-cert](#ssl-cert)
  - [ssl-key](#ssl-key)

## serve

```bash
npx scully serve
```

this starts the scully server helper on its own. You can use this to inspect the result from Scully, or to speed up the scully proccess a bit. it does not _build_ the project, it only serves the angular build files, and the scully result files.

## showBrowser

```bash
npx scully --showBrowser
```

Alias `--sb`. This will show the chromium browser that is rendering your application. Can be used to diagnose some issues

## showGuessError

```bash
npx scully --showGuessError
```

Alias `--sge`. This shows errors from Guess-Parse to the console.

## configFile

```bash
npx scully --configFile someName
```

Alias `--cf`. loads a different config file. if used at the same time as `--project` the project flag takes precedence.

## project

```bash
npx scully --project someName
```

Alias `--pr`. This enables you to select a different project. Scully by default uses the project that is the default project of the Angular CLI. When you want to run for another project, you can use this option, or use the Angular CLI to set another default project.

## baseFilter

```bash
npx scully --baseFilter /someRoute
```

Alias `--bf`. This enable to Scully to start to render an specific route.

## proxyConfig

Alias `--proxy` takes a relative filename filename for a proxy config file. for details look at [this](https://github.com/chimurai/http-proxy-middleware/blob/master/README.md). We use the same config format as [webpackDevServer](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/dev-server/#devserverproxy)

## removeStaticDist

```bash
npx scully --removeStaticDist
```

Alias `--RSD`. Remove the static folder generated by Scully in previous renders.

## open

```bash
npx scully serve/watch --open
```

Alias `--o`. Open the default browser and show the scully dist.

## ssl

```bash
npx scully serve/watch --ssl
```

Run the scully server with ssl.

## ssl-cert

```bash
npx scully serve/watch --ssl --ssl-cert=./url/to/file
```

Add url to ssl cert file for SSL server

## ssl-key

```bash
npx scully serve/watch --ssl --ssl-key=./url/to/file
```

Add url to ssl key file for SSL server
