---
title: Command Line Options
order: 400
---

# Scully Command Line Options

The Scully CLI has the following available options:

[Scully command line options](#scully-command-line-options)

- [Scully Command Line Options](#scully-command-line-options)
  - [Serve](#serve)
  - [Watch](#watch)
  - [showBrowser](#showbrowser)
  - [showGuessError](#showguesserror)
  - [configFile](#configfile)
  - [project](#project)
  - [baseFilter](#basefilter)
  - [routeFilter](#routefilter)
  - [proxyConfig](#proxyconfig)
  - [removeStaticDist](#removestaticdist)
  - [open](#open)
  - [scanRoutes](#scanroutes)
  - [serverTimout](#servertimout)
  - [ssl](#ssl)
  - [ssl-cert](#ssl-cert)
  - [ssl-key](#ssl-key)
  - [tds](#tds)
  - [pluginsError](#pluginserror)
  - [pjFirst](#pjfirst)
  - [404](#404)

## Serve

```bash
npx scully serve
```

Starts the scully server. This process does not _build_ the project. It only serves the Angular build files, and the Scully static files.

## Watch

```bash
npx scully --watch
```

By default, Scully has the watchMode in false. You need to add this flag to use Watch Mode.

## showBrowser

```bash
npx scully --showBrowser
```

Alias `--sb`. Chromium browser renders the application.

## showGuessError

```bash
npx scully --showGuessError
```

Alias `--sge`. Displays Guess-Parse's errors in the console.

## configFile

```bash
npx scully --configFile someName
```

Alias `--cf`. Loads a different config file. If it is used at the same time as the `--project` flag, the project flag takes precedence.

## project

```bash
npx scully --project someName
```

Alias `--pr`. It is used to select a different project. Scully uses the default project from generated by the the Angular CLI.

## baseFilter

```bash
npx scully --baseFilter /someRoute
```

Alias `--bf`. Enables Scully to start rendering a specific route. works on the raw routes, extracted from the app, or provided by extraRoutes.

## routeFilter

```bash
npx scully --routeFilter /user/*/post/1,/posts/1/user/*
```

Alias `--rf`. Enables Scully to start rendering a specific route. Uses the handledRoutes. You can use the `*` as a wildcard, and provide multiple routes seprated by a `,`

## proxyConfig

Alias `--proxy`. Takes a relative filename for a proxy config file.

For more details look at [this](https://github.com/chimurai/http-proxy-middleware/blob/main/README.md).

Scully uses the same config format as [webpackDevServer](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/dev-server/#devserverproxy).

## removeStaticDist

```bash
npx scully --removeStaticDist
```

Alias `--RSD`. Removes the static folder generated by Scully from previous renders.

## open

```bash
npx scully serve/watch --open
```

Alias `--o`. Opens the default browser and renders the dist folder generated by Scully.

## scanRoutes

Alias `--sr` or `--scan`. Scans the application again to find unhandled routes. This is normally done just once. When routes in the application are added or changed, use this flag to discover all the new routes.

## serverTimout

alias `--st` Time to wait for the Scully server to become available. Defaults to 10000 (10 seconds). If you experience timeout issues in your CI, you might wat to raise this number. (Scully needs to extract the routes, this might take longer in a CI environment)

## ssl

```bash
npx scully serve/watch --ssl
```

Runs the Scully server with ssl.

## ssl-cert

```bash
npx scully serve/watch --ssl --ssl-cert=./url/to/file
```

Adds a url to the ssl certificate file for a server with SSL.

## ssl-key

```bash
npx scully serve/watch --ssl --ssl-key=./url/to/file
```

Adds a url to an ssl key file for a server with SSL.

## tds

```bash
npx scully --tds
```

Launches the Test Data Server. This is only helpful for demos.

The following APIs are supported on the test data server:

- `/users` - Returns a list of users
- `/users/:id` - Returns just one user by id
- `/posts` - Returns a list of posts
- `/posts/:id` - Returns a post by id
- `/slow/:delay` - Returns 200 code after a delay has gone by. Eg: `/slow/2000` takes 2 seconds.

## pluginsError

```bash
npx scully --pluginsError=false
```

Alias `--pe` Show the error from the plugin, but continue rendering.
If you do not use the flag (by default is true) when you have an error in any plugin, the Scully will terminate.

## pjFirst

```bash
npx scully --pjFirst
```

might
Alias `--pjf`. In an project that has a different setup, you might want to use the location of the main `package.json` instead of the `angular.json` as the homeFolder default. This might be needed in some NX repo's as well.

## 404

```bash
npx scully --404=""  #default, no need to provide this
npx scully --040="index"
npx scully --040="404"
npx scully --040="none"
```

How routes that are not provided in the application are handled.
If the Scully server gets a request for a route(file) that does not exists on the file-system, this option amends ow that is handled. The default option is to render a 404 page, and raise a waring during rendering. the `index` and `404` will render the `index.html` or the `404.html` from the dist root folder. The `none` option will leave it up to the express software layer. And lastly, `baseOnly` will use the unhandled routes only
