docs/scully.md, before:

---
title: Introduction
order: 110
lang: en
slug: Introduction
---

# Introduction (Alpha)

## What is Scully?

**Scully** is the best static site generator for Angular projects looking to embrace the JAMStack.

### How does it work?

Under the hood, Scully analyzes your Angular application and generates a static version of it. It provides several Angular schematics to make its usage **AS EASY AS POSSIBLE!**

Scully works on Windows, Linux and macOS.

Visit one of the following topics:

- [Pre-requisites](pre-requisites.md)
- [Getting Started](getting-started.md)
- [Scully Configuration](scully-configuration.md)
- [Scully command line options](./scully-cmd-line.md)
- [Scully Core](./scully-lib-core.md)
- [Adding Blog Support](blog.md)
- [Working with Plugins](plugins.md)
- [Polyfills](polyfills.md)
- [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
- [Issues](issues.md)
- [Contribution Guideline](../CONTRIBUTING.md)

---

Join to Scully community in [Gitter](https://gitter.im/scullyio/community)

---

### Do you want to collaborate to scully?

We would love your feedback and how you are using Scully with other tools.

If you want to share your experience with the community please check our [CONTRIBUTING](../CONTRIBUTING.md) guidelines.

Commit message:

docs(grammar): improve grammar for the docs
In addition, address issue #538

docs/scully.md, after:

---
title: Introduction
order: 110
lang: en
slug: Introduction
---

# Introduction (Alpha)

## What is Scully?

**Scully** is the best static site generator for Angular projects looking to embrace the JAMStack.

### How does it work?

Under the hood, Scully analyzes an Angular application, and it generates a static version of it. In addition, it is **EASY TO USE** because it provides several Angular schematics.

Scully works on Windows, Linux and macOS.

Visit one of the following topics:

- [Pre-requisites](pre-requisites.md)
- [Getting Started](getting-started.md)
- [Scully Configuration](scully-configuration.md)
- [Scully command line options](./scully-cmd-line.md)
- [Scully Core](./scully-lib-core.md)
- [Adding Blog Support](blog.md)
- [Working with Plugins](plugins.md)
- [Polyfills](polyfills.md)
- [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
- [Issues](issues.md)
- [Contribution Guideline](../CONTRIBUTING.md)

---

Join the Scully community on [Gitter](https://gitter.im/scullyio/community)

Scully [Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/vcm-wekz-hsx?authuser=1) every Tuesday at noon MST

---

### Do you want to collaborate to scully?

The team would love your feedback and how you are using Scully with other tools.

Want to share your experience with the community? Please check our [CONTRIBUTING](../CONTRIBUTING.md) guidelines.
