docs/utils.md, before:

# Utils

Scully works well in combination with other tools and utils.

1. [Syntax Highlighting using prismjs](#add-syntax-highlighting)

## Syntax Highlighting Using Prismjs

When you are using code blocks in your markdown files for your blog posts, you'll may define a language for the used code like this:

<pre><code>```ts
const foo = 'bar';
```</code></pre>

Scully will parse the markdown using [_marked_](https://www.npmjs.com/package/marked).
In the end the parsed result will look like this:

```html
<code class="language-ts">
  <span class="token keyword">const</span> foo
  <span class="token operator">=</span>
  <span class="token string">'bar'</span><span class="token punctuation">;</span>
</code>
```

As you can see _marked_ will use the CSS class prefix `language-` for tagging the code block with the appropriate language.

To highlight your code blocks, you can use [_prismjs_](https://prismjs.com) as it matches with the resulting class names. You can install prismjs using NPM and creating a service to highlight your code blocks:

```bash
npm i --save prismjs
ng g s highlight
```

The service will include all languages you need and probably the clipboard library to simply copy the code etc.

It could look like this:

```ts
import {Injectable, Inject} from '@angular/core';

import {PLATFORM_ID} from '@angular/core';
import {isPlatformBrowser} from '@angular/common';

import 'clipboard';
import 'prismjs';
import 'prismjs/plugins/toolbar/prism-toolbar';
import 'prismjs/plugins/copy-to-clipboard/prism-copy-to-clipboard';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-bash';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-css';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-javascript';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-json';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-markup';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-typescript';
// ... probably more, check out node_modules/prismjs/components

declare var Prism: any;

@Injectable()
export class HighlightService {
  constructor(@Inject(PLATFORM_ID) private platformId: Object) {}

  highlightAll() {
    if (isPlatformBrowser(this.platformId)) {
      Prism.highlightAll();
    }
  }
}
```

After this, you need the service to be injected in your `BlogComponent` that was generated by scully:

```ts
import {/* ... */, AfterViewChecked} from '@angular/core';
import {HighlightService} from '../highlight.service';
/* ... */
export class BlogComponent implements OnInit, AfterViewChecked {
  constructor(
    /* ... */
    private highlightService: HighlightService
  ) {}
  /* ... */
  ngAfterViewChecked() {
    this.highlightService.highlightAll();
  }
}
```

The last step is to include a theme from prism:

```css
/* include CSS for prism toolbar */
@import '~prismjs/plugins/toolbar/prism-toolbar.css';
/* check node_modules/prismjs/themes/ for the available themes */
@import '~prismjs/themes/prism-tomorrow';
```

That's it, all code languages you have been imported in your `HighlightService` should be highlighted now.
Check out also the official [docs of prismjs](https://prismjs.com/)

---

[Full Documentation ➡️](scully.md)

Commit message:

docs(scully): add content about scully.config and plugins

docs/utils.md, after:

# Utils

Scully works well in combination with other tools and utils.

1. [Syntax Highlighting using prismjs](#add-syntax-highlighting)

## Syntax Highlighting Using Prismjs

When you are using code blocks in your markdown files for your blog posts, you'll may define a language for the used code like this:

<pre><code>```ts
const foo = 'bar';
```</code></pre>

Scully will parse the markdown using [_marked_](https://www.npmjs.com/package/marked).
In the end the parsed result will look like this:

```html
<code class="language-ts">
  <span class="token keyword">const</span> foo
  <span class="token operator">=</span>
  <span class="token string">'bar'</span><span class="token punctuation">;</span>
</code>
```

As you can see _marked_ will use the CSS class prefix `language-` for tagging the code block with the appropriate language.

To highlight your code blocks, you can use [_prismjs_](https://prismjs.com) as it matches with the resulting class names. You can install prismjs using NPM and creating a service to highlight your code blocks:

```bash
npm i --save prismjs
ng g s highlight
```

The service will include all languages you need and probably the clipboard library to simply copy the code etc.

It could look like this:

```ts
import {Injectable, Inject} from '@angular/core';

import {PLATFORM_ID} from '@angular/core';
import {isPlatformBrowser} from '@angular/common';

import 'clipboard';
import 'prismjs';
import 'prismjs/plugins/toolbar/prism-toolbar';
import 'prismjs/plugins/copy-to-clipboard/prism-copy-to-clipboard';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-bash';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-css';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-javascript';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-json';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-markup';
import 'prismjs/components/prism-typescript';
// ... probably more, check out node_modules/prismjs/components

declare var Prism: any;

@Injectable()
export class HighlightService {
  constructor(@Inject(PLATFORM_ID) private platformId: Object) {}

  highlightAll() {
    if (isPlatformBrowser(this.platformId)) {
      Prism.highlightAll();
    }
  }
}
```

After this, you need the service to be injected in your `BlogComponent` that was generated by scully:

```ts
import {/* ... */, AfterViewChecked} from '@angular/core';
import {HighlightService} from '../highlight.service';
/* ... */
export class BlogComponent implements OnInit, AfterViewChecked {
  constructor(
    /* ... */
    private highlightService: HighlightService
  ) {}
  /* ... */
  ngAfterViewChecked() {
    this.highlightService.highlightAll();
  }
}
```

The last step is to include a theme from prism:

```css
/* include CSS for prism toolbar */
@import '~prismjs/plugins/toolbar/prism-toolbar.css';
/* check node_modules/prismjs/themes/ for the available themes */
@import '~prismjs/themes/prism-tomorrow';
```

That's it, all code languages you have been imported in your `HighlightService` should be highlighted now.
Check out also the official [docs of prismjs](https://prismjs.com/)

---

### Do you want to colaborate with scully?

We would really love knows how are you combining scully with other tools.
If you want to share your experiencie with the community please check our [CONTRIBUTING](../CONTRIBUTING.md) file,
and don't forget sign the [CLA](https://cla-assistant.io/scullyio/scully).

---

[Full Documentation ➡️](scully.md)
